## General Questions
### Why Must We Understand Research?
- Informed decision making
- Important for career growth
- Evaluating research in the media
- Assist in classes
### Why is it a Valued Source of Knowledge
- Personal experience/intuition
- Experts/traditions/authority
- Scientific method
#### What is Science, the Scientific Method, and Research?
- Science is a body of established knowledge
	- The observation, investigation, identification, and theoretical explanation of natural phenomena
- Usually the ultimate goal is theory generation and verification
- **Theory is...**
	- A set of inter-related constructs and propositions that relate phenomena to one another
	- Should be simple, consistent with observed relationships, tentative, and verifiable
- **The Scientific Method...**
	- Involves the principles and processes regarded as characteristic of or necessary for scientific investigation
- **Research...**
	- Application of the scientific method
	- A systematic process of collecting and logically analyzing information
- **Research Methods...**
	- The ways one collects and analyzes data
	- Methods developed for acquiring trustworthy knowledge via reliable and valid procedures
### Types of Research
- Descriptive
- Relational
- Causal
- Basic vs. Applied vs. Evaluation
- Experimental vs. Non-Experimental
- Analytical vs. Descriptive vs. Experimental vs. Qualitative
### Types of Papers
- Theoretical
	- Prove theorems
	- Describe new algorithms
- Implementation
	- Describe new software tools
- Experimental
	- Describe results of experiments
- Survey/Review
	- Review current results in a given field
- Note that these are no mutually exclusive
## How to Read a Research Paper
- **Venue**
	- Where was it published
	- It is familiar to you
	- it the journal or conference of quality
- **Title and Author**
	- What is it about?
	- Who did the work?
		- Where are they from?
- **Abstract**
	- Read it carefully - do you understand it, and do its conclusions make sense?
	- If it is written poorly, you can likely just skip reading the paper
- **Introduction**
	- Introduces the problems addressed in the paper
	- May reference other relevant papers
- **Materials and Methods**
	- The core of the paper, which describes how the work was performed
	- Is there sufficient information provided?
	- For each problem or theorem stated, see if you can think of a solution before reading further
- **Results**
	- Verbose conclusions of the paper
	- What conclusions should you draw?
	- Double check that figures don't lie
- **Conclusions**
	- Authors' summary of the contributions provided by the paper
	- Often includes philosophical discussions on the problem, or a field of research
	- Think of questions
		- Do you agree with the conclusions?
		- What are your own conclusions?
		- Do the conclusions logically derive from the material presented?
## Literature Review
- An account of what has been published on a topic by accredited scholars and researchers
- Important, as it allows you to demonstrate skills in two areas:
	1. Information Seeking
		- Ability to scan the literature quickly
	2. Critical Appraisal
		- Ability to apply the principles of analysis



https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wGNevguL6rJVmOiUJhf2TYUZIo6wUOZ-/view

