### Overview
- St. Thomas lived from 1224-1274
- The "5 Ways" are 5 proofs of the existence of God, and are his magnum opus.
- Criticized for the idea that God is not omnipotent.
### The First Way: Motion
- Aquinas defines the idea of *motion*, exhibiting three methods of accidental change
	1. Change of Location
	2. Change of quality (ex. temp.)
	3. Change in quantity
- This argument claims that any of these can be changed by another, but cannot change itself. For instance, a block cannot move itself to a new location if something does not move it. In the beginning there was nothing changing, as nothing had acted. Yet something changed spontaneously, and the unchanging thing which caused this change was God.
	- Take an object with high potential energy, and one with high kinetic energy. The one with PE cannot change or move, unless it is acted upon by one with KE. A fire has high KE, and a piece of wood has high PE. The wood can only use its PE if the fire acts upon it, moving/altering the wood.
- Here it is logically:
	- If B moves A, B must have been moved by something else (C). C must have been moved by something else, D, in order to have moved B. This continues infinitely. However, if this continues infinitely, then there cannot be a *first* mover. But if there is no *first* mover, then the domino effect could not have begun. Therefore, there was a first mover (this is what some people call God).
### The Second Way: Causation
- This focuses more on *efficient causes*, a cause which is intended to create a change in something else, especially in an ordered series.
	- For example, a fire is the efficient cause of heating a kettle. This kettle may then heat water. This is an ordered series, as the water heating is dependent on there being fire.
- This analogy can also be envisioned with a series of spinning gears, which interlock one after another. Three possible scenarios arrive from this:
	1. There is an ordered series of gears (causes) which precede infinitely.
	2. The order of gears ends in a cause, which causes itself.
	3. The gears begin with an uncaused-cause.
- An ordered series of *efficient* causation will terminate in an uncaused cause, God.
### The Third Way: Possibility and Necessity
- Aquinas defines necessity as something not subject to generation or corruption. It may exist, but it can not be created by composition nor destroyed by decomposition.
- A possible being: Something which is able to exist, or not exist.
- A necessary being: Something which cannot come into or go out of existence.
- It is agreeable that its possible for some things to exist or not exist. If it is possible for something to not exist, then at some point it did not. Everything that currently exists, at some point, did not exist. Yet if there was a point in which nothing existed, then there would be no reason for anything to exist now. Therefore, there must have been some kind of 'necessary' being which existed to cause existence of other things (God).
### The Fourth Way: Gradation
- Gradation is a series of successive changes/stages/degrees.
- Aquinas states that if there is a property, than something must be 'maximally' that property. For example, if people can be fast or slow runners, then there must be a fastest and a slowest runner. It is claimed that there is a most good thing, noble thing, and true thing, and that these things are one, but Aquinas did not show his reasoning for this.
- Logical argument: Given things which are more/less good, true, or noble, and assuming that there are more than one things, with differing values of each, then there is a thing with maximum of each virtue. If something is maximally true, it is maximally being, and is therefore the cause of all things less than maximal of its maximal qualities. The thing which is the cause of being, goodness, and perfection, God.
- The concept of being is often criticized by philosophers, as they view being as binary. Either it exists, or it does not. Aquinas views some things as having less being than others, such as an ant having less being than an elephant.
### Discussion Prompt
_You have made your own personal logical analyses of the arguments assigned on the syllabus for this week. Now answer the questions below **according to your own personal convictions** about the value of those assigned arguments. Use as many words as you feel you need to use to express your own sincere personal convictions._

Consider the first four of Aquinas’s Five Ways. Which ones successfully demonstrate that necessarily God exists?

Of the first four ways, I was most compelled by the first and third ways of demonstrating God's existence. The first way demonstrates how an uncaused cause can begin a series of changes via the concept of motion. A block, while sitting on a table, *cannot* move unless something acts upon it. In the beginning, if nothing acts, then nothing can change. Yet, we see things changing around us all the time, as a result of changes in motion. This begs the idea of a first cause, which came from nothing, which Saint Thomas Aquinas calls God.
The third way is similar, and brings the idea of a p