# Kant's Refutation of Idealism
- Descartes had concern of whether we may be trapped inside some kind of simulation.
	- Your sequence of experiences have no basis in the real world.
- Kant claims that the ability to experience things in time needs to be more than simply a sequence of mental states.
	1. Experiences aren't inherently ordered when looked at from within.
	2. Humans need a way to order them, and we do so using time passing.
- Therefore, it is Kant's view is that we can only order them definitively in relation to an objective standard, which must exist outside the mind.
	- Since humans experience things in a definitively time-ordered way and we need an external sequence to make that possible, then our experience is shaped by an outside world.
	- This means that Cartesian Skepticism is invalid, since humans would not be able to be aware of time, unless we were interacting with it.
- All in: our awareness of time proves that we are connected to reality.
- Lots of modern commentators disagree with the premise of transcendental arguments, including this one.
	- They, by nature, have an unlikely jump from how people have constructed the world in order to make sense of it versus how the world actually is.
		- For instance, for most of history people separated matter into the elements as the base division. Then eventually into matter, physical atoms and particles. Now we understand some of string theory, that nothing is 'physical', rather being an interaction of waves. Although we at first constructed the world as being made of earth and fire, that is not the base reality, and was used to make sense of our surroundings.
- Kant's logical steps:
	1. I am self aware as having experiences ordered in time, which contain objects and events distinct from my mental state.
	2. If (P1), then I make judgements about the temporal order of my mental states.
	3. There are no grounds for ordering my mental states found within the form/content of those states.
	4. If (P3), then if I am self conscious, then there is something separate from my mental which their changes can be ordered by.
	5. If (P4), then objects of experience exist outside my mind.
	6. If these objects exist outside my mind, then they must exist in space.
# The Ship of Theseus
- Theseus rode on a ship, which was afterwards used every year on a sacred voyage to Delos from Athens.
- Over the years, the Athenians had to replace each part of the ship, and stored the old planks and such as they were replaced.
- If someone were to take the old planks and build a copy the same ship, would there be two ships of Theseus?
- At what point does a ship cease to have the same identity as it originated with? Does the physical interchange of materials have anything to do with its identity?
# Descartes Arguments for the Mind-Body Distinction
### Argument 1: From Doubt
- Meditation 2
	- Descartes doubts everything he can.
	- He realizes that he can't doubt that he is thinking.
	- Shows that the mind indubitably exists, while the body may not.
	- Therefore the mind and body aren't the same.
- This is critiqued, as just because you can imagine two things as being separate doesn't mean they actually are.
### Argument 2: Clear and Distinct Perception
- Meditation 4
	- Descartes claims to clearly perceive himself thinking and body non-thinking, separate from one another.
	- These are separate physical entities.
	- Therefore, the mind and body are distinct and may exist separately.
- Criticized on Descartes' assumption that his perception in P1 is true.
### Argument 3: Divisibility and Indivisibility
- Meditation 4
	- Bodies can be subdivided into regions, parts, cells, atoms, and even smaller.
	- The mind cannot be divided the same way. Understanding mind as your consciousness.
	- Therefore, because the mind and body have different properties, then they must be distinct.
- Modern science may be at odds with this argument, as we know how regions of the brain dictate different thoughts and behaviours.
### Leibniz' Law
- Also known as the **principle of indiscernibility of identicals**, this proposes that if two entities are identical, then they must have all the same properties.
- Important for the mind-body distinction, as it shows how the mind may be different from the body due to having different properties.
# Princess Elisabeth and the Mind-Body Problem
- **Res Cogitans**: Descartes' view of the mind as a non-extended, immaterial substance whose essential nature is to think.
- **Res Extensa**: Descartes' view of the body as a material substance with a particular shape located in and confined to space.
- The **cartesian** form of the **mind body problem** asks how an **immaterial** thing can move a **material** thing.
- Princess Elisabeth is seen as an intellectual contemporary and friend of Descartes', and provided an argument against the mind/body separation, leading to Descartes' to write his final work on answering the problem (he doesn't find one).
- Princess Elisabeth of Bohemia's Proposition:
	1. If something moves, it must have been cause by either self impulsion, being pushed by something else, or the quality and shape of its surface.
	2. Descartes defines the soul as non-extended and immaterial.
	3. If movement occurs and that movement is cause by self impulsion or being pushed, then contact is required.
	4. Non-extended and immaterial things cannot make contact with other things.
		1. Non-extended and immaterial things cannot move or be moved.
	5. If a movement occurs because of the quality and shape of its surface, then extension is required.
	6. Non-extended and immaterial things (such as souls) don't have extension.
		1. They cannot move themselves.
	7. If P4.1 and P6.1, then the soul (as defined by Descartes) cannot cause the body to move.
- Therefore, if the soul does cause the body to move, then Descartes' definition of the soul is incorrect, or there must be some other explanation of their interaction.
# Kant on Space
- What kind of knowledge is philosophy?
	- Of metaphysics?
- Empirical vs. A Priori Knowledge
- Empirical is observed, while a priori is true only by definition.
- Synthetic Judgements: True by virtue of the way the world is.
- Analytic Judgements: True by virtue of the meaning of the words they contain.
- All empirical