# The Hume Induction
- Scepticism - We know a lot less than we think we do.
- We assume that we know a lot of things, which we have not observed.
	- Ex. Most people believe that the blue whale is the largest animal on Earth, although not many have seen them.
- How do we determine that something unobserved is true?
- We can prove that any triangle will have angles adding to 180*.
	- This is a **necessary truth**.
		- These are claims that must be true.
		- Gathering evidence is not necessary.
		- Known as a *relation of ideas* or the *operation of thought*
- **Matters of Fact** are truths which are true, but disagreeing with it is not inconceivable.
	- For example I have a small dog, but it is not impossible to think that I might be lying about that.
- **Kant**
	- A Posteriori - Matters of Fact
	- A Priori - Relations of Ideas.
# Hume's Skepticism
- How can we know about matters of fact which are neither determined by observation, nor operation of thought.
	- **Observed Regularities**: Because all of something has x quality, then we assume that the next of something will also have that quality.
		- All fires I've touched have been hot, so that fire over there is also hot.
		- This argument uses induction.
		- However, sometimes this is not a good argument, as things can change their qualities.
			- Each of the hairs on my head are orange, so when the next hair grows it will also be orange. Yet when I get old, this may not be so.
		- We may rely on induction when making general inferences about our environment.
- Science can tell us about the laws of nature.
	- Hume argues that this is simply relying on inductive reasoning.
	- For example, gravity will continue to work. Is it possible that it may not one day?
		- You can coherently make a story about a day in which gravity ceases to hold the Earth in rotation around the sun.
- Maybe we can use induction to prove the uniformity of nature.
	- In the past, the future has resembled the past, so in the future the future will resemble the past.
	- This uses circular reasoning, and is therefore an invalid argument.
- Relying on induction can be a good way to form beliefs.
- But what makes induction a better way to determine the future, rather then our own wants?
	- Generally, circular arguments are produced.
- **Hume's argument:** There's no rationally compelling reason to use induction.
	- However, we can't avoid using induction because it is so instinctual.
	- We do not use induction for its rationality, and are unable to force ourselves to behave totally rationally.
# Hume and the Problem of Induction
### Hume's Problem of Induction
- Relations of Ideas
	- Intuitively/demonstratively uncertain.
		- "All bachelors are unmarried"
- Matters of Fact
	- Are not certain, as their denial may be true.
		- "The sun will rise tomorrow"
- All reasoning about matters of fact is based in experience, which may not be reliable/unchanging.
- For example, just because all the apples I have ever eaten have tasted good, does not mean that the apple I'm about to eat will taste good.
### Hume's Negative Argument concerning Induction
- Hume asks "Why do we conclude that particular causes must *necessarily* have such particular effects?"
- **Principle of Uniformity**: Laws and processes observed in the past will continue to do so in the future.
- Hume claims that if we accept that the principle of uniformity is not justified by reason, then the claim the necessity which follows from causal relations must be rejected.
# The Cartesian Dreaming Argument for External-World Skepticism
- Descartes greatly spread the idea that dreaming may be an epistemological issue.
- The **Cartesian** argument doubts the assumption that it is possible for people to have any knowledge of the physical world.
- Asks how sensory experiences can be reliable when they are so simply mimicked whilst dreaming?
	- If we dream, there are times when we cannot distinguish it from reality.
	- There is not absolute way to determine whether I am awake, or if I'm dreaming.
	- I can't prove I'm not dreaming now.
	- Concludes that if wakefulness is uncertain, then our perception of reality is also uncertain.
- This supports the idea of external-world skepticism, as it shows how people may not have true knowledge of our world.
# Hume's Argument Against Miracles
- Can religious belief be based in revelation?
	- Hume determines that miracles cannot be credible.
- Is it possible to be justified in your belief of a miracle on the basis of empirical evidence?
- Hume determines that it is more realistic to believe that a human has lied or misinterpreted a miracle's occurrence, rather than believe them.
	- The evidence against any miracle will always be greater that that which is for it.
- Hume uses an *a priori* (necessary truth/operation of thought) argument.
- People are much to unreliable, and want to believe in miracles, so cannot be trusted.
	- This witness argument is not ever able to be more than the evidence of the laws of nature.
# Reflection
Does science follow a rational method? Further, what rational basis is there for science itself? Is anything ever truly certain?

Yes, science does tend to follow a rational method. Science generally follows the scientific method, which structures how to learn about the world by observation and testing. I would determine this to be rational, as it has been methodically fine-tuned by a multitude of scientists working in good faith, to allow for new information to be found over time. Many scientific discoveries are discovered accidentally, or irrationally, but then are confirmed in a rational, methodical manner.

I would argue that there is also a rational basis for science itself. The craft of science, and the profession of being a 'scientist', has evolved over time to help people learn more about the world. It is rational for society to, generally, want to make discoveries, solidify beliefs, and find a better way forward. Science is the natural and rational outcome of this process of development.

Very few things can ever be truly certain. Even science, as discussed, may be a futile and irrational effort. As Descartes described in his Cartesian Dreaming Argument, it is entirely possible that everything that we experience is in some kind of intricate dream. In dreams, rules make sense, although upon waking, we can recognize their ridiculousness. From this same idea, it is possible that science is a superfluous effort at gaining knowledge, which has no meaning. Additionally, from Hume's arguments, we can understand how trying to find certainty is impossible when we only have present and past data points. When it comes to matters of fact, it is possible to envision a future where that so-called fact is no longer valid. Inductive reasoning is based on observation, but arguing that the past will determine future results in an illegitimate, circular argument.